According to the United States Department of Agriculture,
the amount of money that parents spend on one kid
until they reach 18 years old is $240,000.
And (chuckles) that is why you don't see
more Lamborghinis or Ferraris on the highways.
Wow.
Actually, that's kind of a good birth-control message, man.
Huh.
Just kidding.
Alright, so (laughs) many countries
have education tax savings plans,
which are similar to the retirement
savings plans that we spoke about.
And so what I want you to do is
you could search for education tax savings
in your country name if you wanted to,
or just look here at this link
if it exists for your country.
In the United States, the education savings program
is called the 529, right?
And the reason you have all these numbers for tax codes
is because that's the number in the tax code
when they create that new law, right?
It's a little up there, but it is what it is.
In Canada, it's not called a 529,
it's called the RSVP.
I'm sorry, the RESP, or Registered Education Savings Plan.
And the concept is similar in many countries, okay?
So it's similar in many countries,
the educational savings programs,
because you save money in a tax-free account
to pay for your kid's school in the future, okay?
And then you pay taxes on it when you take that money out
of the educational savings plan
in order to pay for your kid's school,
which is expensive, right?
However,
unlike a retirement plan, like a 401(k),
education plans like 529s
might not reduce your current taxable income, okay?
And many companies actually match your contributions
for education savings programs as well.
If you work at a big company,
make sure to call human resources, okay?
See if they match the education
savings contribution you're making.
Okay.
Separately, in the retirement savings lecture earlier,
we spoke about how there might be retirement accounts
where you can put the money in after you pay taxes,
then you let the money grow tax-free,
and then you take the money out
and you don't pay taxes when you take it out.
Okay?
Again, in the US, it's called a Roth IRA.
Okay.
And there are similar educational savings accounts,
or ESA, educational saving account programs like that
for education savings account,
meaning you pay taxes first,
and then you put the money in that account,
meaning in the ESA, educational savings account,
and never pay taxes on it ever again when you take it out.
Okay?
And when you have grandchildren,
the best gift you can give them when they're born
is a $2,000 donation into their educational savings account.
Right?
Because that $2,000 can grow tax-free
and be worth a heck of a lot more
by the time they go to college or university.
Okay, and you wanna start saving if you can
when your kids are very, very young, right?
And the cost of a four-year university education
is gonna be well over $100,000
by the time they're in school if they're born today, okay?
In some countries, and more in other countries.
So let your money grow for you starting today.
And you know, they should've
taught us this stuff in school.
And lastly, many places,
you cannot deduct the interest on your student loans.
And if you have any additional questions about this,
please let me know.
Thank you.